September 2020 release note (#1057)
MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr: articles/resources/relnotes.md

For update instructions, please refer to the [update guide](xref:microsoft.quantum.update).

## Version X.XX.XXXXXXXX

*Release date: Sept 29th, 2020*

This release contains the following:

- Performance improvements for simulator.
- IntelliSense support is enabled when using Python as a driver.
- Improved IQ# Python interoperability.

> - Implemented new gate for external contribution.

Reviewer: - Improvements to the [`Microsoft.Quantum.Arrays` namespace](xref:microsoft.quantum.arrays) (https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumLibraries/issues/313)

For update instructions, please refer to the [update guide](xref:microsoft.quantum.update).

## Version X.XX.XXXXXXXX

*Release date: Sept 29th, 2020*

This release contains the following:

- Performance improvements for simulator.
- IntelliSense support is enabled when using Python as a driver.
- Improved IQ# Python interoperability.

> - Resource estimation is updated to produce simultaneously achievable depth and width estimates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - Implemented new gate for external contribution.

Reviewer 2: What does that mean? What is that?

For update instructions, please refer to the [update guide](xref:microsoft.quantum.update).

> ## Version X.XX.XXXXXXXX

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Version 0.12.20092342
```

> *Release date: Sept 29th, 2020*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Release date: September 29th, 2020*
```

This release contains the following:

- Performance improvements for simulator: better application of gate fusion decisions; improved parallelization on Linux system; added intelligent scheduling of gate execution; bug fixes; overall speed improvement of ~5x (even faster on larger problems).

> - IntelliSense support is enabled when using Python as a driver.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- IntelliSense features are now supported for Q# files in Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code even without a project file.
```

- Improved IQ# Python interoperability.

> - Improvements to the Microsoft.Quantum.Arrays namespace (microsoft/QuantumLibraries#313)

Reviewer 3: @cgranade @msoeken @guenp could one of you please review/update this release note for the `Microsoft.Quantum.Arrays` improvements?

> - Added a new language repo (QIR blog)[TODO]

Reviewer 3: @bettinaheim could you please update this release note and/or add appropriate links here?

Reviewer 2: done

- General bug fixes.

> Since the last release, the default branch in our open source repositories has been renamed to "main" as the default branch for development.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since the last release, the default branch in each of our open source repositories has been renamed to `main`.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

See the full list of closed PRs for [libraries](https://github.com/Microsoft/QuantumLibraries/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed), [compiler](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-compiler/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed), [runtime](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-runtime/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed), [samples](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed), [IQ#](https://github.com/microsoft/iqsharp/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed) and [Katas](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed).

```

For update instructions, please refer to the [update guide](xref:microsoft.quantum.update).

## Version 0.12.20092342

*Release date: September 29th, 2020*

This release contains the following:

- Performance improvements for simulator: better application of gate fusion decisions; improved parallelization on Linux system; added intelligent scheduling of gate execution; bug fixes; overall speed improvement of ~5x (even faster on larger problems).
- IntelliSense features are now supported for Q# files in Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code even without a project file.
- Various Q#/Python interoperability improvements and bug fixes, including better support for NumPy data types.
- Improvements to the Microsoft.Quantum.Arrays namespace (microsoft/QuantumLibraries#313)
- Added a new language repo (QIR blog)[TODO]

> - General bug fixes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- General bug fixes.
- Added a new Repeat-Until-Success sample that uses only two qubits
```

> - General bug fixes.

Reviewer 4: Is "general bug fixes" across all repos? We could tag the relevant GitHub issue numbers, happy to help with this.

Since the last release, the default branch in each of our open source repositories has been renamed to `main`.

> See the full list of closed PRs for [libraries](https://github.com/Microsoft/QuantumLibraries/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed), [compiler](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-compiler/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed), [runtime](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-runtime/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed), [samples](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed), [IQ#](https://github.com/microsoft/iqsharp/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed) and [Katas](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
See the full list of closed PRs for [libraries](https://github.com/Microsoft/QuantumLibraries/pulls?q=is%3Apr+closed%3A2020-09-02..2020-09-25+), [compiler](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-compiler/pulls?q=is%3Apr+closed%3A2020-09-02..2020-09-25+), [runtime](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-runtime/pulls?q=is%3Apr+closed%3A2020-09-02..2020-09-25+), [samples](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pulls?q=is%3Apr+closed%3A2020-09-02..2020-09-25+), [IQ#](https://github.com/microsoft/iqsharp/pulls?q=is%3Apr+closed%3A2020-09-02..2020-09-25+) and [Katas](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/pulls?q=is%3Apr+closed%3A2020-09-02..2020-09-25+).
```

Reviewer 4: Added the filter `is:pr closed:2020-09-02..2020-09-25` (code complete for August was on Wed 09-02)

Reviewer 3: Actually the August release was on 8/25 ([see here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/quantum/resources/relnotes#version-01220082513)), so perhaps we can use `2020-08-24..2020-09-24` as the date range?

Reviewer 3: But I like this idea a lot, it will be really helpful if someone actually wants to see what was in the release!

Reviewer 4: @rmshaffer thanks, updated the dates :)

For update instructions, please refer to the [update guide](xref:microsoft.quantum.update).

> ## Version 0.12.20092501

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Version 0.12.20092803
```

*Release date: September 29th, 2020*

This release contains the following:

> - Introduction of [Quantum Intermediate Representation (QIR)](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language/tree/main/Specifications/QIR#quantum-intermediate-representation-qir) intended as a common format across different front- and backends; see our [blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/qsharp/introducing-quantum-intermediate-representation-qir)

Reviewer 3: @bettinaheim Is this correct -- does this release actually contain QIR? I thought it was still in a feature branch.

Reviewer 2: Ah, that is a good point and bad phrasing from my part. No, the implementation is not part of the release; only the spec (and the code) has been made public as part of the language repo. 
```suggestion
- Announcement and draft specification of [Quantum Intermediate Representation (QIR)](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language/tree/main/Specifications/QIR#quantum-intermediate-representation-qir) intended as a common format across different front- and backends; see our [blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/qsharp/introducing-quantum-intermediate-representation-qir)
```

Reviewer 3: Yes, I think that's more clear! Thanks.

> - Launch of our new Q# language [repo](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language) containing also the full [Q# documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language/tree/main/Specifications/Language#q-language)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Launch of our new [Q# language repo](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language) containing also the full [Q# documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language/tree/main/Specifications/Language#q-language).
```

- Various Q#/Python interoperability improvements and bug fixes, including better support for NumPy data types.
- Improvements to the Microsoft.Quantum.Arrays namespace (see [microsoft/QuantumLibraries#313](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumLibraries/issues/313)).

> - Added a new language repo (QIR blog)[TODO]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Launch of our new Q# language [repo](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language) containing also the full [Q# documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language/tree/main/Specifications/Language#q-language)
- Introduction of [Quantum Intermediate Representation (QIR)](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language/tree/main/Specifications/QIR#quantum-intermediate-representation-qir) intended as a common format across different front- and backends
```

> - Performance improvements for simulator: better application of gate fusion decisions; improved parallelization on Linux system; added intelligent scheduling of gate execution; bug fixes; overall speed improvement of ~5x (even faster on larger problems).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Performance improvements for QuantumSimulator for programs involving a large number of qubits: better application of gate fusion decisions; improved parallelization on Linux system; added intelligent scheduling of gate execution; bug fixes.
```

- Added a new [Repeat-Until-Success sample](https://github.com/microsoft/Quantum/tree/main/samples/algorithms/repeat-until-success) that uses only two qubits.

> - General bug fixes.

Reviewer 3: suggestion from @efratshabtai to remove this line
```suggestion
```

For update instructions, please refer to the [update guide](xref:microsoft.quantum.update).

## Version 0.12.20092501

*Release date: September 29th, 2020*

This release contains the following:

> - Performance improvements for simulator: better application of gate fusion decisions; improved parallelization on Linux system; added intelligent scheduling of gate execution; bug fixes; overall speed improvement of ~5x (even faster on larger problems).

Reviewer 2: - Introduction of [Quantum Intermediate Representation (QIR)](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language/tree/main/Specifications/QIR#quantum-intermediate-representation-qir) intended as a common format across different front- and backends; see our [blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/qsharp/introducing-quantum-intermediate-representation-qir)
- Launch of our new Q# language [repo](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language) containing also the full [Q# documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language/tree/main/Specifications/Language#q-language)

- IntelliSense features are now supported for Q# files in Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code even without a project file.
- Various Q#/Python interoperability improvements and bug fixes, including better support for NumPy data types.
- Improvements to the Microsoft.Quantum.Arrays namespace (see [microsoft/QuantumLibraries#313](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumLibraries/issues/313)).

> - Launch of our new Q# language [repo](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language) containing also the full [Q# documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language/tree/main/Specifications/Language#q-language)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - Introduction of [Quantum Intermediate Representation (QIR)](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-language/tree/main/Specifications/QIR#quantum-intermediate-representation-qir) intended as a common format across different front- and backends; see our [blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/qsharp/introducing-quantum-intermediate-representation-qir)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
